update-user-docs (#104)
BfArM-MVH/GRZ_QC_Workflow: docs/usage.md

| `bed_file`              | Target region for WES and Panel with the extension ".bed.gz" or ".bed". Empty for WGS                                                                                                  |
| `fastp_json`            | If aligned reads are given in BAM, corresponding FASTP result in `fastp.json` can optionally be given                                                                                  |

|

### Multiple runs of the same sample

The `sample` identifiers have to be the same when you have re-sequenced the same sample more than once e.g. to increase sequencing depth. The pipeline will concatenate the raw reads before performing any downstream analysis. Below is an example for the same sample sequenced across 4 lanes:

```csv title="samplesheet.csv"
sample,laneID,fastq_1,fastq_2
CONTROL_REP1,2,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R2_001.fastq.gz
CONTROL_REP1,3,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L003_R2_001.fastq.gz
CONTROL_REP1,4,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R1_001.fastq.gz,AEG588A1_S1_L004_R2_001.fastq.gz
```

Find an example samplesheet [here](../tests/data/test-datasets_sarek/samplesheet_WES_test.csv)

## Reference files

> You can use refernces files with `nextflow run main.nf --reference_path "your/reference/path/references"`. Your reference folder needs a directory stucture like this, with subdirectory of both GRCh37 and GRCh38. In each subdirectory, it contains a genome file, a genome index file and a folder with bwamem index. The advantage to use `--reference_path` is that the pipeline can automatically use the right genome reference, you do not have to check the genome version in your GRZ submission beforehand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use reference files with `nextflow run main.nf --reference_path "your/reference/path/references"`. Your reference folder needs a specific directory stucture, with subdirectory of both GRCh37 and GRCh38. In each subdirectory, it contains a genome file, a genome index file and a folder with bwamem index. The advantage to use `--reference_path` is that the pipeline can automatically use the right genome reference, you do not have to check the genome version in your GRZ submission beforehand.
```

## BAM input

> Running the pipeline with aligned files is possible using `--input samplesheet.csv` and `--genome` parameters. Using `fastp_json` corresponding to the aligned BAM files are optional. If fastp json result is not provided, basequality calculation will be carried out using a [python script](../bin/calculate_basequality.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the pipeline directly from alignments is possible using `--input samplesheet.csv` and, optionally, `--genome` parameters. Using `fastp_json`s corresponding to the aligned BAM files is optional. If `fastp json` is not provided, base quality calculation will be carried out using a [python script](../bin/calculate_basequality.py).
```

```csv title="samplesheet.csv"
sample,aligned_reads,fastp_json
CONTROL_REP1,AEG588A1_S1001.bam,AEG588A1_S1_L002_R2_001.fastp.json
CONTROL_REP2,AEG588A1_S2001.bam,
```

Find an example samplesheet [here](../tests/data/test-dataset-alignments/samplesheet_aligment.csv)

> Note that, running with `--submission_basepath` is not possible for BAM inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that running with `--submission_basepath` is not possible for BAM inputs.
```
